---
layout: post
title: My Experience at Bloc
---
I started my time at Bloc with a limited amount of knowledge about front end development. I had done some education courses on my own through Codecademy and Treehouse hoping that I could teach myself. While I learned quite a bit, I just felt like having someone there to help me along the way would prove to be a more beneficial experience. After some research, I chose to enroll with Bloc. I liked the flexibility in their program so I could make it fit in my schedule and I liked having a mentor. It was comforting knowing that there was an actual human person I could reach out to with any questions along the way.

I dove right in. The hardest part about the first half of the program, which was mostly tutorials, was setting up my virtual environment. Getting the programs to properly install on my computer proved to be a challenge. My machine was already old and slow and trying to allot space on my hard drive was nearly impossible. After struggling through that the first time, with help from my mentor of course, I recently got a new machine and being so near the end of the program, actually felt confident getting everything installed on my new machine.

The way the program is structured seems to work rather effectively. Going through the first half of the course and step by step building an application through detailed lessons at first felt so overwhelming. The information just kept pouring into my head and at the time almost seemed like too much. But then, I got to the projects portion of the program. I was thankful to have those lessons to reference while I was building my first application from start to finish. When I had a question about how to structure some code or how to approach a problem, I could look back at the lessons I had completed and find reference points to help guide my projects. 
The joy that I felt after completing that first project on my own was amazing. I was so proud of what I accomplished. Being able to open an application and say, I built this, what a moment. In just a few short months I had gone from clueless to capable. And I’ve only gotten better since. Having completed two projects at this point, I know I will be finishing my time at Bloc feeling confident. That’s what this whole experience boils down to for me.

I spent endless amounts of time going through courses on other sites and never felt as confident as I do now. Bloc provides you with the tools to leave the program and feel like you have the tools to become an accomplished developer on your own. I have already taken on projects from other sources. The knowledge and experience that I have gained are the real advantages that Bloc provides its students. I’m ready to enter the career world on my own and become a successful front end developer. I would not be where I am now if I had not taken the leap and joined the Bloc community. I am eternally grateful for the experience I was provided.
