---
layout: post
title: Why Front End Development
---
I have always admired my father. Growing up, he was constantly supporting me in any decision that I made. When I wanted to ride horses, he made it happen. When I wanted to try lacrosse instead of ride horses, he helped me pick out a stick. When I wanted to switch back to riding horses instead of playing lacrosse, he let me. When I wanted to get far away from him and my mom to attend college, he paid for it. No matter what I wanted to do, he was there and helping me along the way. He also happens to be part of the reason I have chosen to pursue a career in front end development.

For as long as I can remember my dad has worked with computers. And for a long time I had no idea what that actually meant. I didn’t really start asking him questions until my sophomore year of college when we needed a volunteer to take over as webmaster for the equestrian club. Without hesitation, I took the job. Now, that was very limited exposure to the world of web development but it’s also the point at which I say I got hooked. For the following three years, I dabbled here and there, manipulating the HTML files on some third party sites I used and taking some free courses on codecademy.

Cut to one year after I graduated from college. At twenty-four, I finally realize what I want to do with the rest of my life (only a little late). I spent a lot of time talking with my dad about the parts of web development that I liked and exactly what about it interests me. What made me decide on pursuing front end development instead of back end or web design, was the languages that were being used and what you could do with them. I’m into that whole instant gratification thing. I like that I can take a string of word and characters and if I put them together a certain way, they can make an entire arcade game like pong. I like that not only have I learned about design through HTML and CSS but I am also learning how to actually build the interactive applications you find on websites. Front end development allows me to affect the user experience on a website. I find that incredibly fascinating and so much fun!

On top of that, I like the freedom being a developer offers. I can build my own freelance operation, create my own schedule. I’m free to work remotely from anywhere that has internet access. That is a huge selling point for me. I describe myself as being a restless wanderer. I think it comes from spending my entire childhood in the same small town. There is a whole world out there to experience and having a job that allows me to travel is important to me. So that is what lead me to Bloc and to pursuing a career in front end development. I can’t wait to dive deeper into the puzzle and explore the endless learning opportunities as technology continues to grow.

