---
layout: post
title: My Biggest Challenge as a Developer
---
The process of learning how to become a developer is filled with many challenges. The biggest that I faced in my journey was understanding that I was learning a new language. When I started the program, I let problems overwhelm me. When I would hit a wall with a project I would get so frustrated that I couldn’t focus and solve it. I consulted with my dad a few times during these instances and the most important thing he kept reminding me was that while it might seem challenging, I was simply learning a new language. That is one of the most helpful things I learned in this process. It is a language.

Being able to grasp this concept helped immensely with my projects. When I would get frustrated with anything, I would take a deep breath, step back and remind myself, this is a language. It’s just like learning to speak a different language. In order for a native speaker to understand what you are saying, you have to be able to take the individual words and piece them together in the proper way. Essentially, it is the same thing when you are talking to a computer. If you want the computer to understand what you are asking it to do, then you have to speak the right language.

The first time I tried to learn Javascript was a total disaster. I didn’t understand how it worked. I didn’t understand how to put together functioning strings. The second time I tried it, through Bloc, I reminded myself, this is a language. When you stop looking at it as a foreign set of characters and imagining you are learning something simple, like how to speak Spanish, everything feels much more manageable. This viewpoint was helpful while I was building my Bloc Pong application. It was so important in that case to make sure each of my objects’ variables were housed in the proper spot. If I put the initial variable definition in the wrong place, the computer misunderstood what I was asking. I ran into a problem with this several times before fully understanding that.

Viewing my code as a conversation between the computer and myself proved to be the best approach to solving my struggle as a developer. I would definitely recommend this view to any person looking to become a developer. If you can understand that, it makes writing your code so much simpler. Now, when I run into any issues with my code working properly, I can look through it and think, “what is this telling the computer to do?” and then adjust accordingly. This can be especially useful when structuring the order of my code as well. It is a reminder that the computer isn’t going to know what the variable “object” is if I haven’t first taken the time to provide the computer with a definition.

For myself, understanding the basics of code as a language was the biggest challenge. After being able to change the way I looked at and approached a problem I was able to overcome this and make a huge leap forward to building two working applications from scratch. If not for the program at Bloc, I don’t think I would have been able to accomplish this through my own study. Now, I’m ready to tackle any language I choose!
